docs: React Router migration docs (#3018)
remix-run/remix: docs/guides/migrating-cra.md

```js
import * as React from "react";

import logo from "./logo.png";

export function Logo() {
  return <img src={logo} alt="My logo" />;
}
```

This should work for fonts as well. In Remix, you'll generally import fonts in a route module and use them as the `href` of a `link` tag. [See our route loader docs for more information.](../api/conventions#loader)

### SVG

CRA allows you to import SVG files as React component. This is a common use case for SVG files, but it's not supported by default in Remix.

```js
import * as React from "react";

// This will not work in Remix!
import { ReactComponent as MyLogo } from "./logo.svg";

export function Logo() {
  return <MyLogo />;
}
```

If you want to use SVG files as React components, you'll need to first create the components and import them directly. [React SVGR](https://react-svgr.com/) is a great toolset that can help you generate these components from the [command line](https://react-svgr.com/docs/cli/) or in an [online playground](https://react-svgr.com/playground/) if you prefer to copy and paste.

### Style imports

> CRA supports importing styles in your components in many ways. While this is common practice in the React ecosystem, it's not supported the same way in Remix for a few different reasons.

Reviewer: I think this section could be expanded to list a few of the common issues people will come up against due to this and what they should do about it.

Author: Yeah I meant to include a link to the section below where we talk about styles in relation to `links` but I just missed it 😅

## Installing packages

First, you'll need a few of our packages to build on Remix. Follow the instructions below, running all commands from the root of your CRA project.

```shell
npm install @remix-run/react @remix-run/node
```

Because CRA apps are client-rendered by default, you may not have a server yet. All Remix apps run on a server, so we'll install a few packages to create one quickly.

```shell

> npm install @remix-run/express express@4 compression@1 morgan@1

Reviewer: Is there a reason they can't just use remix-serve? That would simplify this guide considerably I think. If there's a change remix-serve needs to support CRA apps then maybe we should make that change.

Author: This guide was written to basically emulate our Express template, so I copied all of the scripts and dependencies directly from it. We could probably simplify it but I'd like to be as close to the template as possible, as we'll be linking out to it.

Author: @kentcdodds Discussed w/ @mjackson before I wrote this and he agreed the Express template would make for a better teaching opportunity. We could discuss again, just want to make sure we're all on the same page.

root.render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<App />}>
        <Route index element={<Dashboard />} />
        <Route path="expenses" element={<Expenses />} />
        <Route path="invoices" element={<Invoices />} />
        <Route path=":userId" element={<UserLayout />}>
          <Route path="profile" element={<UserProfile />} />
          <Route path="sales" element={<UserSales />} />
        </Route>
      </Route>
    </Routes>
  </BrowserRouter>
);
```

In Remix, you never need to explicitly render the `<BrowserRouter />`, `<Routes />` or `<Route />`. This route hierachy can be replicated by:

- rendering the `App` component in special route file called `root.jsx` in your `appDirectory`
- moving the other route components into the `routes` directory
- updating file names to follow our [file name conventions](../api/conventions#file-name-conventions)

So you'll end up with a file structure that looks like this:

```
app/
├── routes/
│   ├── $userId/
│   │   ├── profile.jsx
│   │   ├── sales.jsx
│   └── expenses.jsx
│   └── index.jsx
│   └── invoices.jsx
│   └── $userId.jsx
└── root.jsx
```

### The `root` route

> The root route (or the "root root" if you're Wes Bos) is responsible for providing the structure of the application. Its default export is a component that renders the full HTML tree.

Reviewer: @wesbos, just want to double-check with you that you're ok with this joke 😅

Reviewer 2: haha yep, I didn't realize I was known for the way I say Route :)

      app.</noscript
    >
    <div id="root"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

If you haven't already, create a new file in your `appDirectory` called `root.jsx` and export a component that mirrors that structure:

```js filename=root.jsx
import * as React from "react";

export default function Root() {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
        <meta
          name="viewport"
          content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"
        />
        <meta name="theme-color" content="#000000" />
        <meta
          name="description"
          content="Web site created using create-react-app"
        />
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="/logo192.png" />
        <link rel="manifest" href="/manifest.json" />
        <title>React App</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <noscript>
          You need to enable JavaScript to run this app.
        </noscript>
        <div id="root"></div>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

Notice that we don't need to use `%PUBLIC_URL%` as our server serves relative paths from the `public` directory.

> We can also get rid of the `noscript` tag because we're server rendering now, which means users who disable JavaScript will still be able to see our app (even if they can't interact with it in exactly the same way).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also get rid of the `noscript` tag because we're server rendering now, which means users who disable JavaScript will still be able to see our app and thanks to [progressive enahancement](../pages/philosophy#progressive-enhancement) most of the app will still work anyway.
```

I'm not sure if that URL is correct. I *think* it is.

### Route styles and `<link />` tags

At this point, you _might_ be able to run your app with no changes, but you probably import a stylesheet somewhere in your `App` component (and probably from others, I'm sure). Remember though—Remix does not handle CSS imports the same way CRA does, and we think for good reason.

Assume you have a plain CSS import in your `App` component:

```jsx filename=app.jsx lines=[6]
import * as React from "react";
import { Outlet } from "react-router-dom";

import Logo from "./logo";
import SiteNav from "./site-nav";
import "./styles.css";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <header>
        <Logo />
        <SiteNav />
      </header>
      <main>
        <Outlet />
      </main>
      <footer>&copy; Remix Software</footer>
    </div>
  );
}
```

While this is a convenient API, consider a few questions:

- How do the styles actually end up on the page? Do you get a `<link />` or an inline `<style />` in the `<head>`?

> - If other components also import CSS, where do they end up in relation other component styles?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If other components also import CSS, where do they end up in relation other component styles? This has important implications on how the styles are applied due to the cascading nature of CSS.
```

Let's move our app's stylesheet and a few other assets to the `links` function in our root route:

```jsx filename=root.jsx lines=[2,5,7-16,32]
import * as React from "react";
import { Links } from "@remix-run/react";

import App from "./app";
import stylesheetUrl from "./styles.css";

export function links() {
  // `links` returns an array of objects whose
  // properties map to the `<link />` component props
  return [
    { rel: "icon", href: "/favicon.ico" },
    { rel: "apple-touch-icon", href: "/logo192.png" },
    { rel: "manifest", href: "/manifest.json" },
    { rel: "stylesheet", href: stylesheetUrl },
  ];
}

export default function Root() {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <meta
          name="viewport"
          content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"
        />
        <meta name="theme-color" content="#000000" />
        <meta
          name="description"
          content="Web site created using create-react-app"
        />
        <Links />
        <title>React App</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <App />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

> You'll notice on line 32 that we've rendered a `<Links />` component that replaced all of our individual `<link />` components. This is inconsequential if we only ever use links in the root route, but it's all child routes may export their own links that will also be rendered here. The `links` function can also return a [`PageLinkDescriptor` object](../api/conventions#pagelinkdescriptor) that allows you to prefetch the resources for a page the user is likely to navigate to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll notice on line 32 that we've rendered a `<Links />` component that replaced all of our individual `<link />` components. This is inconsequential if we only ever use links in the root route, but all child routes may export their own links that will also be rendered here. The `links` function can also return a [`PageLinkDescriptor` object](../api/conventions#pagelinkdescriptor) that allows you to prefetch the resources for a page the user is likely to navigate to.
```

> If you inject `<link />` tags into your page client-side in your existing route components, either directly or via an abstraction like [`react-helmet`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-helmet), you'll get to delete a lot of code and possibly a dependency or two!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you currently inject `<link />` tags into your page client-side in your existing route components, either directly or via an abstraction like [`react-helmet`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-helmet), you can stop doing that and instead use the `links` export. You get to delete a lot of code and possibly a dependency or two!
```

### Route `<meta />` tags

Similar to `links`, each route can also export a `meta` function that—you guessed it—returns a value responsible for rendering `<meta />` tags for that route. This is useful because each route often has its own

The API is slightly different for `meta`. Instead of an array, it returns an object where the keys represent the meta `name` attribute (or `property` in the case of OpenGraph tags) and the value is the `content` attribute. The object can also accept a `title` property that renders a `<title />` component specifically for that route.

Again—no more weird dances to get meta into your routes from deep in the component tree. Export them at the route level and let the server handle it. ✨

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a simple example here or a link to the docs for the `meta` component? Would probably be good to mention that meta accepts loader data so your meta tags can be data-driven. Would probably be good to move the `<title>` in the root.tsx to `meta` and explain that's a special case.

## Using the `.jsx` extension for React component files

> In CRA you can use JSX in either `.jsx` or `.js` files. You'll need to rename any components with JSX to `.jsx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CRA you can use JSX in either `.jsx` or `.js` files. In Remix, you *must* use `.jsx` for all files that use JSX.
```

Author: Going to hold on this. @mjackson suggested that we should probably support JSX in `.js` files since esbuilt supports that directly now. May try to land that PR first!

Author: Related PR is up: https://github.com/remix-run/remix/pull/3059

## Updating imports and dev scripts

Remix re-exports everything you get from `react-router-dom` and we recommend that you update your imports to get those modules from `@remix-run/react`. In many cases, those components are wrapped with additional functionality and features specifically optimized for Remix.

**Before:**

```jsx bad
import { Link, Outlet } from "react-router-dom";
```

**After:**

```jsx
import { Link, Outlet } from "@remix-run/react";
```

You should also update a few scripts in your `package.json` to run Remix instead of `react-scripts`:

**After:**

```json
{
  "start": "react-scripts start",
  "dev": "react-scripts start",
  "build": "react-scripts build"
}
```

**After:**

```json
{
  "build": "remix build",
  "start": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production node ./server.js",
  "dev": "remix build && run-p dev:*",
  "dev:node": "cross-env NODE_ENV=development nodemon ./server.js --watch ./server.js",
  "dev:remix": "remix watch"
}
```

These scripts are a bit more verbose, but that's because we don't abstract the processes. We give that power back to you. After all, you know how to run your app better than anyone on our team!

## Final Thoughts

> While we've done our best to provide a comprehensive migration guide, it's important to note that we built Remix from the ground up with a few key principles that differ significantly from how many React apps are currently built. While your app will likely run at this point, as you dig through our docs and explore our APIs, we think you'll be able to drastically reduce the complexity of your code and improve the end user experience of your app. It might take a bit of time to get there, but you can eat that elephant one bite at a time. 🐘

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we've done our best to provide a comprehensive migration guide, it's important to note that we built Remix from the ground up with a few key principles that differ significantly from how many React apps are currently built. While your app will likely run at this point, as you dig through our docs and explore our APIs, we think you'll be able to drastically reduce the complexity of your code and improve the end user experience of your app. It might take a bit of time to get there, but you can eat that elephant one bite at a time. 🐘 In particular, after you've shipped this first upgrade to your app, you'll want to start moving your data fetching and mutations to [`loaders`](../api/conventions#loader) and [`actions`](../api/conventions#action). Get ready to delete a lot of code!
```

---
title: Migrating from Create React App
description: Remix makes integrating MDX into your project a breeze with built in routes and "import" support.
---

# Migrating from Create React App with React Router

Most apps bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/) (CRA) already use [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/) for client-side routing. Because Remix is built on top of React Router, migration should be a relatively easy process.

> If you aren't already using React Router, we think there are several compelling reasons to reconsider! History management, dynamic path matching, nested routing, and much more. Take a look at the [React Router docs](https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/getting-started/concepts) and see what all we have to offer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you aren't already using React Router, we think there are several compelling reasons to reconsider! History management, dynamic path matching, nested routing, and much more. Take a look at the [React Router docs](https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/getting-started/concepts) and see all what we have to offer.
```

`createRequestHandler` needs two pieces of information about your app to work: we need to pass in the output of your build and the `NODE_ENV` environment variable.

```js filename=server.js lines=[4-7,10,24-30]
const express = require("express");
const compression = require("compression");
const path = require("path");
const morgan = require("morgan");
const {
  createRequestHandler,
} = require("@remix-run/express");
const app = express();

const BUILD_DIR = path.join(process.cwd(), "build");

app.use(compression());
app.disable("x-powered-by");
app.use(
  "/build",
  express.static("public/build", {
    immutable: true,
    maxAge: "1y",
  })
);
app.use(express.static("public", { maxAge: "1h" }));
app.use(morgan("tiny"));

app.all(
  "*",
  createRequestHandler({
    build: require(BUILD_DIR),
    mode: process.env.NODE_ENV,
  })
);
```

We can improve the experience during development quite a bit here by purging the [require cache](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#caching) before each request. This is a good idea to avoid memory leaks and other issues that can arise from caching, especially when using live reload.

> We'll write a function called `purgeRequireCache` that will delete the cache for anything that requires our build output, and we'll call it cnoditionally when `NODE_ENV` is set to `development`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We'll write a function called `purgeRequireCache` that will delete the cache for anything that requires our build output, and we'll call it conditionally when `NODE_ENV` is set to `development`.
```

        <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
        <meta
          name="viewport"
          content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"
        />
        <meta name="theme-color" content="#000000" />
        <meta
          name="description"
          content="Web site created using create-react-app"
        />
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="/logo192.png" />
        <link rel="manifest" href="/manifest.json" />
        <title>React App</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <App />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

<docs-warning><strong>Important:</strong> be sure to delete the `index.html` from your `public` directory after you've created your root route. Keeping the file around will cause your server to send that HTML instead of your Remix app when accessing the `/` route.</docs-warning>

### Route stylesheets

At this point, you _might_ be able to run your app with no changes, but you probably import a stylesheet somewhere in your `App` component (and probably from others, I'm sure). Remember though—Remix does not handle CSS imports the same way CRA does, and we think for good reason.

Assume you have a plain CSS import in your `App` component:

> ```jsx filename=app.jsx lines=[6]
> import * as React from "react";

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```jsx filename=app.jsx lines=[5]
```

The answer to all of these questions is up to CRA, not you. And if you want to know you'll have to dig around the CRA source code to know for sure.

We think there's a better way, and it's one that happens to be as old as HTML2: `<link rel="stylesheet" />`.

<docs-info>

**Note:** Remix does not currently support CSS processing directly. If you use preprocessors like Sass, Less, or PostCSS, you can run those as a separate process in development.

We also do not yet support CSS Modules, as that requires compiler integration and current approaches are not aligned with our design philosophy. We are actively working on a solution and plan to have an API for CSS Modules very soon.

</docs-info>

### Route `links` exports

In Remix, stylesheets can only be loaded from route component files. Importing them does not do anything magical with your styles, rather it returns a URL that can be used to load the stylesheet as you see fit. You can render the stylesheet directly in your component or use our `links` export.

Let's move our app's stylesheet and a few other assets to the `links` function in our root route:

> ```jsx filename=root.jsx lines=[2,5,7-16,32]
> import * as React from "react";

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```jsx filename=root.jsx lines=[1,4,6-15,31]
```

import { Links } from "@remix-run/react";

import App from "./app";
import stylesheetUrl from "./styles.css";

export function links() {
  // `links` returns an array of objects whose
  // properties map to the `<link />` component props
  return [
    { rel: "icon", href: "/favicon.ico" },
    { rel: "apple-touch-icon", href: "/logo192.png" },
    { rel: "manifest", href: "/manifest.json" },
    { rel: "stylesheet", href: stylesheetUrl },
  ];
}

export default function Root() {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <meta
          name="viewport"
          content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"
        />
        <meta name="theme-color" content="#000000" />
        <meta
          name="description"
          content="Web site created using create-react-app"
        />
        <Links />
        <title>React App</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <App />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

> You'll notice on line 32 that we've rendered a `<Links />` component that replaced all of our individual `<link />` components. This is inconsequential if we only ever use links in the root route, but all child routes may export their own links that will also be rendered here. The `links` function can also return a [`PageLinkDescriptor` object](../api/conventions#pagelinkdescriptor) that allows you to prefetch the resources for a page the user is likely to navigate to.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You'll notice on line 31 that we've rendered a `<Links />` component that replaced all of our individual `<link />` components. This is inconsequential if we only ever use links in the root route, but all child routes may export their own links that will also be rendered here. The `links` function can also return a [`PageLinkDescriptor` object](../api/conventions#pagelinkdescriptor) that allows you to prefetch the resources for a page the user is likely to navigate to.
```

If you currently inject `<link />` tags into your page client-side in your existing route components, either directly or via an abstraction like [`react-helmet`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-helmet), you can stop doing that and instead use the `links` export. You get to delete a lot of code and possibly a dependency or two!

### Route `meta` exports

> Similar to `links`, each route can also export a `meta` function that—you guessed it—returns a value responsible for rendering `<meta />` tags for that route. This is useful because each route often has its own

Reviewer 4: > This is useful because each route often has its own

Seems like this sentence is missing some words? 🤔

The API is slightly different for `meta`. Instead of an array, it returns an object where the keys represent the meta `name` attribute (or `property` in the case of OpenGraph tags) and the value is the `content` attribute. The object can also accept a `title` property that renders a `<title />` component specifically for that route.

Again—no more weird dances to get meta into your routes from deep in the component tree. Export them at the route level and let the server handle it. ✨

## Using the `.jsx` extension for React component files

In CRA you can use JSX in either `.jsx` or `.js` files. You'll need to rename any components with JSX to `.jsx`.

## Updating imports and dev scripts

Remix re-exports everything you get from `react-router-dom` and we recommend that you update your imports to get those modules from `@remix-run/react`. In many cases, those components are wrapped with additional functionality and features specifically optimized for Remix.

**Before:**

```jsx bad
import { Link, Outlet } from "react-router-dom";
```

**After:**

> ```jsx

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```jsx good
```
This way it will show a green border & is consistent with the bad example (which shows with a red border)
